DialogFragment service docs (#511)
MicrosoftDocs/CommunityToolkit: docs/maui/platform-specific/DialogFragment-customization.md

---
title: Dialog Fragment Service - .NET MAUI Community Toolkit
author: pictos
description: The DialogFragmentService provides an easy way to control the behavior of Modal pages in Android.
ms.date: 02/01/2025
---

# Dialog Fragment Service

> In .NET 9, the .NET MAUI changed how modal pages works in Android, now it uses a [`DialogFragment`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/DialogFragment) and that's a breaking-change. With that some features that worked didn't work anymore and because of that a new way to interact with it has to be implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.NET 9.0 introduced a breaking change in how modal pages work in Android - they now use a [`DialogFragment`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/DialogFragment). This breaking change resulted in broken functionality within the .NET MAUI Community Toolkit. The `DialogFragmentService` provides a mechanism to fix the breaking changes,
```

The `DialogFragmenteService` is an interface that allows developers to customize the behavior and appearence of Modal pages in .NET MAUI for Android. The .NET MAUI Community Toolkit provides a default implementation to make sure its features, like `StatusBarColor` will work with the new Modal implementation.

## Usage

By default the .NET MAUI Community Toolkit register the service, but you can control that, during the builder phase.

```csharp
public static class MauiProgram
{

 public static MauiApp CreateMauiApp()
 {
  var builder = MauiApp.CreateBuilder()
        .UseMauiCommunityToolkit(static options =>
        {
            options.SetShouldUseStatusBarBehaviorOnAndroidModalPage(false);
        });
        return builder.Build();
    }
}
```

Will be cases where you want to fix and customize the `DialogFragment` to match your apps needs, so in for that you can create your own implementation for that and use togheter with other implementations.

## Create you own service

> Let's say that your app needs to present the Modal in immersive mode, in order to that we need to have access to the `DialogFragment` and configure its `Window` to behave the way we need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to present the modals in immersive mode. In order to achieve this we need to have access to the `DialogFragment` and configure its `Window` to behave in the required way.
```
